in this video I would like to start the
discussion about convolutional new
networks which is another architecture
of uh neural networks that we are going
to see specifically kind of engineered
uh to um address problems that we are
facing in computer vision I want to
start this discussion with um just
showing you a picture and uh if I ask
you uh to tell me what would actually be
the first object that you pay attention
to then most people will probably
respond to with yellow cab and it's not
really accident that lot of cabs in a
lot of capitals are painted uh yellow U
and of course that attention uh to
bright colors originates from thousands
of years of evolution where people are
of course trained to pay attention to uh
bright colors which are typically
sources of food such as fruits or in
some instances sources of uh danger such
as the yellow tiger that is coming
towards us uh so kind of joking aside I
think you can um associate uh this kind
of image with the following kind of
processing of uh various kind of stage
processing that that is been going on in
your brain uh trying to uh from the kind
of perception system that embeds uh into
it that we have embedded into it so if
you can imagine the process um then the
first thing that you open your eyes soon
that you have your eyes closed and you
see an image like this uh then the brain
is actually in a uh first few
milliseconds is uh sampling this image
in a course kind of way uh and uh
determines whether we have uh situations
as as an immediate kind of threat or a
source of food and then very quickly the
brain switches
softly into uh objects paying attention
to objects which are associated with the
task that we have uh we we we have to to
execute so we have the uh for example if
you're waiting for someone uh in this
kind of a scene then you start paying
more attention to people coming towards
you people getting out of vehicles and
so
on so now uh what I like to start
getting into is uh the mechanics of a
little bit of computer vision some kind
of basic principles and I wanted to
cover a little bit um you know the the
question as to okay what is an image
that like the one that we've seen
earlier and how we're going to represent
it and evidently an image is a matrix
and I think we had some discussion about
images uh before and a black white imag
is or a grayscale image as you actually
see over here is um a matrix of um that
whose
elements are integer numbers and um this
integer numbers typically we are um you
know each element corresponds to a pixel
and the dynamic range that we associate
with uh typically for in computer vision
with those pixels are 8 Bits so we
represent the information at each pixel
and codes as 8 Bits which means that
these integer numbers are zero from 0 to
255 and uh so um when we go to color IM
es we need more than one of those
matrices in fact we need three matrices
typically again there are sensors which
are of course encode the information to
far more than uh three matrices uh but
those three matrices are corresponds to
the fundamental colors typically of red
green and blue uh and this um uh which
is actually what you see here and also
probably you notice that these numbers
are now floating Point numbers let's say
from 0 to one and this results from
normalizing these uh uh pixel numbers uh
uh to uh with a number 255 because 2 to
the power of 8 is
256 and uh uh therefore all our numbers
will be from 0 to 255 in those matrices
if we start dividing every element with
255 we get numbers between 0 and 1 and
this is basically what we need to do in
order to process uh the images in with
with our new neural networks that we
will introduce now called the
convolutional neural networks so uh with
convolutional neural networks we need to
start the discussion on what is a
convolution and uh this is what's coming
next